Received: from sea.net.edu.cn ([202.112.5.66])
	by spam-gw.ccert.edu.cn (MIMEDefang) with ESMTP id j8S9qIIm028353
	for <xue@ccert.edu.cn>; Wed, 28 Sep 2005 19:04:10 +0800 (CST)
Received: from mail.tsinghua.edu.cn (mail.tsinghua.edu.cn [166.111.8.18])
	by sea.net.edu.cn (8.12.11/8.12.11) with SMTP id j8SA3UnO014607
	for <xue@ccert.edu.cn>; Wed, 28 Sep 2005 19:15:21 +0800 (CST)
Received: (eyou send program); Wed, 28 Sep 2005 18:49:46 +0800
Message-ID: <327900275.22130@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn>
Received: from 166.111.125.123 by mail.tsinghua.edu.cn with HTTP; Wed, 28 Sep 2005 18:49:46 +0800
From: gan@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn
To: xue@ccert.edu.cn
Date: Wed, 28 Sep 2005 18:49:46 +0800
Reply-To: gan@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn
X-Priority: 3
Subject: =?gb2312?B?ofEgSm9iIE9wcG9ydHVuaXR5LS0tQnJpdGlzaCBDb3VuY2lsIENoaW5h?=
Content-Type: text/plain

Job Opportunity---British Council China
 
The British Council operates in China as the Cultural and Education Section of
 the British Embassy in Beijing, and the Cultural and Education Section of the
 British Consulates-General in Shanghai, Guangzhou and Chongqing. The British 
Council is the UK\'s international organisation for educational and cultural re
lations. The British Council is based in 109 countries and 227 towns and citie
s worldwide. Our purpose is to win recognition abroad for the UK\'s values, ide
as and achievements, and nurture lasting, mutually beneficial relationships wi
th other countries. In China we aim to create opportunities in education, Engl
ish language learning and cultural exchange for young Chinese people; we showc
ase British excellence, innovation and creativity in the arts; support China\'s
 extensive restructuring of its legal, social and economic system; and collabo
rate on science and technology projects throughout China. 
Every year in China the British Council handles over 25,000 enquiries about Br
itain. Our information centres in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Chongqing a
re open to the public and offer internet access, books, newspapers, magazines,
 videos, IELTS resources and information about study in the UK. Our centres al
so organise a huge variety of British events, workshops, exhibitions and semin
ars each year.
Our website: www.britishcouncil.org.cn is a great source of information about 
Britain and the British Council\'s operation in China. It contains information 
about examinations, arts events, governance projects, science projects and muc
h more. You can also find information in Chinese about studying in the UK on o
ur new website www.educationuk.org.cn .
The British Council connects people worldwide with learning opportunities and 
creative ideas from the UK and builds lasting relationships between the UK and
 other countries.
  Examinations Services Assistant(1名) (北京市)  
The British Council, operating in China as the Cultural and Education Section 
of the British Embassy, is seeking a detail-oriented and highly motivated indi
vidual with proficiency in English and strong administrative skills to fill in
 the post of Examinations Services Assistant (Job code: ESA2). The successful 
candidate will join an established team of 34 and contribute to the administra
tion of British examinations and qualifications in Northern China. 
Examinations Services is the largest unit within the British Council Beijing O
ffice. It provides examinations services to British educational institutions, 
professional bodies and examination boards in the fields of English as a forei
gn language, professional and vocational qualifications, school entrance requi
rements and degree programmes. Examinations Services Test Administration Team 
is an important team responsible for the secure, efficient and timely administ
ration of the IELTS examination delivered to a high level of customer service.
 
The key duties of this post will be:
To take full responsibilities to execute the IELTS examination administration 
in compliance with the standards and requirments set in the IELTS Admin Manual
 and working calendar. The detailed duty list will include examination databas
e operation; test day paperwork, equipment and stationery preparation; candida
te contact, and other administrative tasks. 
To provide flexible administrative support to cover staff absences within the 
Examinations Services Test Administration Team
Key Competencies required in the post will be 
Ability to work both independently and within the team to finish the assigned 
tasks efficiently and effectively 
Good team working spirit and ability to take lead for team based activities 
Demonstrated customer service orientation to meet customer needs and add value
 to them
Strong flexibility to adapt to the changing working environment, willingness t
o work under high pressure and meet tight deadlines 
Excellent written and oral English skills, ideally IELTS 5.5 or BULATS 2 
Outstanding administrative skills with great attention to details that will en
able the post holder to meet the error-free test administration goal 
The salary of the post (after deductions) will be approximately RMB 5000 per m
onth and the successful candidate will have opportunities for training and per
sonal development. In addition, the Cultural and Education Section of the Brit
ish Embassy provides ongoing English language training to all staff.
Interested applicants should submit a completed British Council application fo
rm to recruitment@britishcouncil.org.cn
The application form, job description and guidance on completing the applicati
on form are linked to this job advertisement. Candidates are strongly advised 
to read guidance on completing the application form before completing the appl
ication form. 
Applicants must outline how their experience and skills match the essential an
d desirable skills and experience required for the post. Applicants who do not
 meet all essential competencies will not be considered for shortlisting. 
Deadline for applications is 5 October 2005.
If you have any enquiries for completing the job application forms please emai
l to hr.enquiry@britishcouncil.org.cn
Please see www.britishcouncil.org.cn for more information about our work in Ch
ina.
